So let's now create our first task which will compile SASS to CSS and minify
CSS. So I'm gonna now rename the "hello" dummy task to "styles". And so we can write our logic here.
Let's now create a new SASS file. And this will be the file that we want to compile.
So let's call it bundle.scss. So it will be just one single file that we will compile.
And if you want to you know organize your files into multiple SASS files we can just import them into
the bundle
.scss.
So for example we can have a folder called components.
And again I created a file.
And let's say inside of it you've some sort of a component. Maybe you want to add the header styles in a
separate file. So we have our SASS file for the header.
And we can just include it in the bundle file in order to have one file to compile.
So in the same directory search for components
and then header.
So now we need to compile this bundle.scss file into bundle.css file.
So let's write our task now. So Gulp itself,
it helps us create tasks but it doesn't actually do the jobs we need.
It doesn't actually compile the SASS and that's and that sort of stuff. We need to install the additional
packages in order to do that.
So I search for "gulp sass",
and install it.
And it might take a while and after it's done, we can see how to use it here.
So let's go back now to our gulpfile and try to use this task library.
Some I'm gonna import it. "import sass from
'gulp-sass'".
So remember when we created a dummy task we used  this done() signal in order to tell Gulp when the task
is done.
In our case we won't have to use that. Because we will return a Gulp a no stream. And a no stream
is just the representation for the, for a file.
So if we type "gulp.src" and then a path for a file.
So in our case it's "src/" and
then "assets/scss" and then "bundle.scss".
So this function will return a kind of representation for the file in this path.
And it's called a stream.
And if you know about node.js you might heard about this before but you know the details are not important.
It's just enough to know that this is a representation for the file.
And now we want to do some sort of a transformation to this file,
right?
We want to take scss file and compile it. And to do that we use another function called
pipe().
So ".pipe()". And inside the pipe() function we'll run the SASS package.
So "sass()".
And it takes an error callback.
So if you have a syntax error in your SASS files, you can log it in the console. "sass.logError".  And
pipe() also returns the same representation for the file
but after you know, you've done the transformation, you've done the SASS plugin.
So now we need to save it somewhere.
So to do that we'll use pipe() also. And then we use something called "gulp.dest" for destination and
then type the destination path we want to save the file in.
So it's a convention to save the compiled files in a folder called "dist" for distribution.
And then we follow the same path as we created in the source folder.
So "dist/asset/scss" or "css" this time.
So let's try and run now and see what will happen.
So I'm gonna run "gulp styles "
And we've an error here.
Ok.
So let's comment this out for now.
So as you can see "Starting styles" , "Finished styles". So let's go to the folder and see if it
created the compiled file.
As you can see you have the dist folder now. And asset, css and the compiled CSS file. So let's type actually
some CSS in order to make sure that it is working properly.
So inside the header file which we include in the bundle I'm gonna type some CSS.
And then run
the Gulp task again.
And now we have the in the bundle.css the compiled version.
So let's do the minification now.
And for that I'm gonna use another package called "gulp clean css".
So let's install it.
And then use it.
So in the gulpfile let's "import
cleanCSS from
'gulp-clean-css'".
And then after the SASS compiling, we'll do another transformation.
".pipe()"
and then "cleanCSS()". And it takes some arguments it can take a "compatibility" and it takes a minimum browser
to support.
So I'm gonna type "ie8". So let's save and run the task again
"gulp styles". And let's see what happened to the bundle.css. And it's minified as you can see.
So as we mentioned we won't have to do the minification during development. So we did this production
flag and now we need to use it. We need to add some if condition here.
If you are, if you are in production minify the CSS otherwise just skip this part. And to do that we will
have to add another package called "gulp if".
So "gulp if" will simply allows to do something in the pipe() function depending on certain conditions. So,
so let's install it.
It's called "gulp if". So "npm install gulp-if --save-dev".
and then we'll import it.
And to use inside the pipe() function
we just have to instead of just running "cleanCSS()" directly we'll run "gulpif()" and then add the condition which
is PRODUCTION.
If production is true, run "cleanCSS()".
So the second argument is the function that we want to run if the first argument is true.
So let's try this. So let's run  "gulp styles" without the production flag and as you can see it's not
minified.
And if we type --prod,
now it's minified. Great.
So let's load now the CSS in the theme.
So go to the WordPress stuff for a bit.
So remember in the header file when we said we mentioned that we will use the head, wp_head()
and the wp_footer() functions in order to enqueue in order to add JavaScript files and CSS files.
That's exactly what we're gonna do now.
So in the functions.php. So let's keep it organized this. Let's add another file to add our
scripts.
So I'm gonna call it enqueue-assets.php. And let's copy the name and create this file in the lib folder.
I'm gonna open PHP tag and create a new function.
So remember in the helpers file we mentioned that all our functions must be prefixed, right? So I'm gonna do the
prefix and then function name.
And let's call it simply assets. And then to add a style sheet with a function called wp_enqueue_style().
So the first argument is the handle or the this is the unique name for the style sheet. And it should
also be prefixed.
So let's use the "firsttheme" prefix and then "stylesheet".
So this should be unique and then the source which is the path for the file. And a path for the file would
be the "dist/asset/css/bundle.css". So we'll get the theme directly using a function called get_template_
directory_
uri().
And then append it with our path which is "dist/assets/css/bundle.css".
And then we can have an array of dependencies.
We can leave it as an empty array for now.
And media as css media query. We want to rather for all media queries so let's type "all".
And then we'll use a function called add_action().
And we'll talk more about add_action() later.
But what that add_action() will do is just simply will use the wp_head() and the wp_footer() hooks
in order to add something to them.
It just sounds you know vague to you.
We'll talk about later more details in the course. That's just for now.
The first arguments is the action name which is "wp_enqueu_
scripts"
and then the function name which is this one.
And don't worry
as I mentioned we'll talk about the add_action()  function later.
But right now it should be, it should work.
So let's go back to the browser and actually have the MAMP server opened and go to your theme.
And looks like it's not loaded
so let's take a look.
Oh, it is loaded actually
Ok, I mistyped bundle here.
Sorry about that.
Ok, so I realized that we've done another mistake in the gulpfile. I typed "asset" here instead of "assets".
So let's correct that and the run the "gulp styles" task again. And it should work this time.
So it looks like I did another mistake in the enqueue scripts function enqueue_style after the array
of dependencies
we have a diversion before the media query. So I'm gonna type version 1. And I hope it will work
this time.
So I realize another mistake in the SASS file.
The body just is not a class it's the element so rerun the task.
It should work this time pretty sure.
And finally.